Custom Entities Guide (#267)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/entities/first-entity.md

---
title: Creating Your First Entity
description: Learn how to register a simple entity and how to give it goals, render, model, and animate it.
authors:
  - cassiancc
  - Earthcomputer
  - JaaiDead
---

Entities are dynamic, interactive objects in the game that are not part of the terrain (like blocks). Entities can move around and interact with the world in various ways.

## Your First Entity {#your-first-entity}

> This tutorial will walk you through the process of creating a custom _Mini Iron Golem_. This entity will have fun animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will walk you through the process of creating a custom _Mini Golem_. This entity will have fun animations.
```

- `Zombie` and `Skeleton` are all examples of a `Monster`, a variant of an `Entity` that is hostile to the `Player`.
- `Minecart` and `Boat` are examples of a `VehicleEntity`, which has special logic for accepting player input.

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a `PathfinderEntity`, used by most mobs with pathfinding like `Zombie` and `Villager` alike.

## Preparing Your First Entity {#preparing-your-first-entity}

The first step in creating a custom entity is defining its class and registering it with the game.

We'll create the class `MiniGolemEntity` for our entity, and start by giving it attributes. [Attributes](attributes) decide the Maximum Health, Movement Speed & Tempt Range of the entity.

@[code transcludeWith=:::registerclass](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

To register your entity, it's recommended to create a separate class, `ModEntityTypes`, where you register any and all entity types, set their dimensions, and register their attributes.

@[code transcludeWith=:::types](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/ModEntityTypes.java)

> 

Reviewer: At this point you can already create your entity with `/summon` (although you won't be able to see it). I would maybe include this here as people like to see stuff working for their effort.

Reviewer 2: As I understand it, creating the entity at this point causes either 1. a game crash when it loads since there is no renderer or 2. the text "failed to summon entity"

Reviewer: Ah okay, in that case ignore me

## Adding Goals {#adding-goals}

> Goals are the system that handle an entity's objective/aim, providing them with a defined set of behaviour. Goals have a certain priority, ranging from `0` being the highest and subsequently reducing in priority as the number increases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Goals are the system that handle an entity's objective/aim, providing them with a defined set of behaviour. Goals have a certain priority: goals with a lower value for the priority are prioritized over goals with a higher value for the priority.
```

::: info

1. `TemptGoal` - The entity is attracted towards a player holding an item.
2. `RandomStrollGoal` - Walks/Wanders around the world.
3. `LookAtPlayerGoal` - To look at the `Cow` entity.
4. `RandomLookAroundGoal` - To look in random directions.

:::

## Creating Rendering {#creating-rendering}

Rendering refers to the process of converting game data such as blocks, entities, and environments into visual representations displayed on the player's screen. This involves determining how objects are illuminated, shaded, and textured.

::: tip
Entity rendering is always handled on the client side. The server manages the entity's logic and behavior, while the client is responsible for displaying the entity's model, texture, and animations.
:::

Rendering has multiple steps involving their own classes, but we'll start with the `EntityRenderState` class.

@[code transcludeWith=:::entitystate](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/state/MiniGolemEntityRenderState.java)

The render state determines how the entity is visually represented, including animation states such as movement and idle behaviors.

### Setting up the Model {#setting-up-model}

> The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines how your entity looks by describing its shape and parts. Models are generally created in third-party tools like [Blockbench](https://web.blockbench.net), rather than being written by hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines how your entity looks by describing its shape and parts. Models are generally created in third-party tools like [Blockbench](https://web.blockbench.net), rather than being written by hand. Nonetheless, this tutorial will go through a manual example to show you how it works.
```

::: warning
Blockbench supports multiple [mappings](../migrating-mappings/#mappings) (such as Mojang Mappings, Yarn, and others). Ensure you select the correct mapping that matches your development environment - this tutorial uses Mojang Mappings.

Mismatched mappings can cause errors when integrating Blockbench generated code.
:::

@[code transcludeWith=:::model1](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

> The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines the visual model for a Mini Golem entity. It extends EntityModel, specifying how the entity's body parts (head, left leg, and right leg) are named.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines the visual model for a Mini Golem entity. It extends EntityModel, specifying how the entity's body parts (body, head, left leg, and right leg) are named.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_texture_data](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

This method defines the Mini Golem's 3D model by creating its body, head, and legs as cuboids, setting their positions and texture mappings, and returning a `LayerDefinition` for rendering.

> Each part is added with a offset point for proper animation and alignment, ensuring the model appears correctly in-game.

Reviewer: This is far too vague. Crucially, the offset point is the origin for any transformations (such as rotation) applied to this model part. This is why you would want to ever change this offset point. All other coordinates in the model part are measured relative to this offset point.

Author: Resolved

::: info
The higher Y values in the model, the lower you are in the entity. This is the reverse compared to in-game coordinates.
:::

We'll now need to create a `ModEntityModelLayers` class in the client package. This entity only has a single texture layer, but other entities may use multiple - think of the secondary skin layer on mobs like the `Player` or a `Spider`'s eyes.

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_layer](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/ModEntityModelLayers.java)

This class must then be initialized in the mod's client initializer.

@[code transcludeWith=::register_client](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/ExampleModCustomEntityClient.java)

### Setting up the Texture {#setting-up-texture}

::: warning

> The size of the texture should match the values in the `LayerDefinition.create(modelData, 64, 32);`, 64 pixels wide and 32 pixels tall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of the texture should match the values in the `LayerDefinition.create(modelData, 64, 32);`, 64 pixels wide and 32 pixels tall. If you need a bigger texture, then don't forget to change the size in `LayerDefinition.create` to match.
```

For example purposes, you can use this example texture for `assets/example-mod/textures/entity/mini_golem.png`

<DownloadEntry visualURL="/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem.png" downloadURL="/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem_small.png">Texture</DownloadEntry>

### Creating the Renderer {#creating-the-renderer}

A mob's entity renderer enables you to view your entity in-game. We'll create a new class, `MiniGolemEntityRenderer`, which will tell Minecraft what texture, model and entity render state to use for this entity.

@[code transcludeWith=:::renderer](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/renderer/MiniGolemEntityRenderer.java)

This is also where the shadow radius is set, for this entity that will be `0.375f`.

### Adding Walking Animations {#walking-animations}

The following code can be added to the `MiniGolemEntityModel` class to give the entity a walking animation.

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_animation](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

> Most of the math is provided by Blockbench.

Reviewer: Huh? On the contrary, I believe I probably took this from one of vanilla's entities. It swings the legs based on a fairly simple transformation of a sine wave.

Does Blockbench commonly generate this? In which case I would change the wording to suggest that it *can* be generated by Blockbench, and instead describe the maths directly rather than a hand-wavy "Blockbench will do it for you" comment.

Author: Resolved

Looking into the game, you now have all you need to spawn the entity with `/summon example-mod:mini_golem`!

> ![Spawn Egg showcase](/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem_summoned.png)

Reviewer: The alt text here is wrong

## Adding a Dancing Animation {#adding-a-dancing-animation}

Let's make this entity a bit more lively by giving it a dancing animation. We'll create a `MiniGolemAnimations` class with a simple animation that allows the Mini Golem to dance.

> @[code transcludeWith=:::dancing_animation](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/animation/MiniGolemAnimations.java)

Reviewer: As explained in the big long comment, I think this part should go in its own section at the end (just before the spawn egg).

### Using Synched Entity Data {#using-synched-entity-data}

> We can store data on the entity itself by defining an `EntityDataAccessor` for it. This data will be synchronized with the client, making it a good place to define our dancing state.

Reviewer: This feels a little brief to me, although maybe I'm tripping. I think my problem with it is the way it's framed. As a mod developer of course you would do this as a subtask of making a dancing animation, but in a tutorial the important part is introducing the reader to synched entity data and explaining what it's all about. The same goes for the next section as well.

So rather than "we need a place to store our data, ah that's convenient there's this thing we can use to synchronize with the client", it should be "one way to synchronize entity data with the client is to use synched entity data. [Insert a brief introduction of synched entity data]. We will be using this for storing whether the entity is dancing, and synchronizing that information with the client. [Insert how we use synched entity data in this specific case".

Another problem with how this is worded is it implies that the primary purpose for synched entity data is to store data in an entity, when in fact it is to synchronize to the client. If anything doesn't need to be synchronized (and sometimes even if it does), you should use a field or another mechanism.

I think part of the problem is that this is included as a subsection of "adding a dancing animation", rather than a section in its own right. Even though it's part of setting up the animation, the dancing is part of the narrative of the whole tutorial, and only the actual animation itself needs to be under an animation header.

> @[code transcludeWith=:::datatracker](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

Reviewer: There is some animation state code interleaved in here. I think that should be left to the animation section later. (The field and the override of `onSyncedDataUpdated`.

- The `0.2` constant in the formula controls the frequency of the cosine wave (how fast the legs are swinging). Higher values result in a higher frequency.
- The `1.4` constant in the formula controls the amplitude of the cosine wave (how far the legs swing). Higher values result in a higher amplitude.
- The `limbSwingAmplitude` variable also affects the amplitude in the same way as the `1.4` constant. This variable changes based on the velocity of the entity, so that the legs swing more when the entity is moving faster and swing less or not at all when the entity is moving slower or not moving.
- The `Mth.PI` constant for the left leg translates the cosine wave a half phase so that the left leg is swinging the opposite direction to the right leg.

You can plot those on a graph to see what they look like:

![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/dark_graph.png){.dark-only}
![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/light_graph.png){.light-only}

The "red" curve is for the left leg, and the "black" one is for the right. The horizontal x-axis represents time, and the y-axis indicates the angle of the leg limbs.

> Feel free to [play around with the constants on Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/bhlkblxhur) to see how they affect the curve.

Reviewer 3: Let's update the graph link and the screenshots, then LGTM!

---
title: Creating Your First Entity
description: Learn how to register a simple entity and how to give it goals, render, model, and animate it.
authors:
  - cassiancc
  - Earthcomputer
  - JaaiDead
---

Entities are dynamic, interactive objects in the game that are not part of the terrain (like blocks). Entities can move around and interact with the world in various ways.

## Your First Entity {#your-first-entity}

This tutorial will walk you through the process of creating a custom _Mini Golem_. This entity will have fun animations.

An entity is a movable object in a world with logic attached to them. A few examples include:

- `Villager`, `Pig`, and `Goat` are all examples of a `Mob`, the most common type of entity - something alive.
- `Zombie` and `Skeleton` are examples of a `Monster`, a variant of an `Entity` that is hostile to the `Player`.
- `Minecart` and `Boat` are examples of a `VehicleEntity`, which has special logic for accepting player input.

> This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a `PathfinderMob`, used by most mobs with pathfinding like `Zombie` and `Villager`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Entities are dynamic, interactive objects in the game that are not part of the terrain (like blocks). Entities can move around and interact with the world in various ways. A few examples include:

- `Villager`, `Pig`, and `Goat` are all examples of a `Mob`, the most common type of entity - something alive.
- `Zombie` and `Skeleton` are examples of a `Monster`, a variant of an `Entity` that is hostile to the `Player`.
- `Minecart` and `Boat` are examples of a `VehicleEntity`, which has special logic for accepting player input.

This tutorial will walk you through the process of creating a custom _Mini Golem_. This entity will have fun animations. It will be a `PathfinderMob`, which is the class used by most mobs with pathfinding, such as `Zombie` and `Villager`.
```

## Adding Goals {#adding-goals}

Goals are the system that handle an entity's objective/aim, providing them with a defined set of behavior. Goals have a certain priority: goals with a lower value for the priority are prioritized over goals with a higher value for the priority.

To add goals to the entity, you need to create a `registerGoals` method in your entity's class that defines the goals for the entity.

@[code transcludeWith=:::goals](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

::: info

1. `TemptGoal` - The entity is attracted towards a player holding an item.
2. `RandomStrollGoal` - Walks/wanders around the world.
3. `LookAtPlayerGoal` - Despite the name, this accepts any entity. Used here to look at the `Cow` entity.
4. `RandomLookAroundGoal` - To look in random directions.

:::

## Creating Rendering {#creating-rendering}

Rendering refers to the process of converting game data such as blocks, entities, and environments into visual representations displayed on the player's screen. This involves determining how objects are illuminated, shaded, and textured.

> ::: tip

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
::: info
```

Mismatched mappings can cause errors when integrating Blockbench generated code.

:::

@[code transcludeWith=:::model1](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines the visual model for a Mini Golem entity. It extends `EntityModel`, specifying how the entity's body parts (body, head, left leg, and right leg) are named.

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_texture_data](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

This method defines the Mini Golem's 3D model by creating its body, head, and legs as cuboids, setting their positions and texture mappings, and returning a `LayerDefinition` for rendering.

Each part is added with an offset point which is the origin for all of the transformations applied to that part. All other coordinates in the model part are measured relative to this offset point.

::: info

The higher Y values in the model, the lower you are in the entity. This is the reverse compared to in-game coordinates.

> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
::: warning

Higher Y values in the model correspond to the **bottom** of the entity. This is the reverse compared to in-game coordinates.

:::
```

We'll now need to create a `ModEntityModelLayers` class in the client package. This entity only has a single texture layer, but other entities may use multiple - think of the secondary skin layer on entities like the `Player` or a `Spider`'s eyes.

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_layer](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/ModEntityModelLayers.java)

This class must then be initialized in the mod's client initializer.

@[code transcludeWith=::register_client](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/ExampleModCustomEntityClient.java)

### Setting up the Texture {#setting-up-texture}

::: warning

The size of the texture should match the values in the `LayerDefinition.create(modelData, 64, 32);`, 64 pixels wide and 32 pixels tall. If you need a differently-sized texture, then don't forget to change the size in `LayerDefinition.create` to match.

> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
::: tip

The size of the texture should match the values in the `LayerDefinition.create(modelData, 64, 32)`: 64 pixels wide and 32 pixels tall. If you need a differently-sized texture, then don't forget to change the size in `LayerDefinition.create` to match.

:::
```

- The `0.2` constant in the formula controls the frequency of the cosine wave (how fast the legs are swinging). Higher values result in a higher frequency.
- The `1.4` constant in the formula controls the amplitude of the cosine wave (how far the legs swing). Higher values result in a higher amplitude.
- The `limbSwingAmplitude` variable also affects the amplitude in the same way as the `1.4` constant. This variable changes based on the velocity of the entity, so that the legs swing more when the entity is moving faster and swing less or not at all when the entity is moving slower or not moving.
- The `Mth.PI` constant for the left leg translates the cosine wave a half phase so that the left leg is swinging the opposite direction to the right leg.

You can plot on a graph to see what these look like. The first curve is the left leg, and the second curve is the right leg. The _`x`_-axis is time, and the _`y`_-axis is the angle of the leg limbs.

![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/dark_graph.png){.dark-only}

![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/light_graph.png){.light-only}

> Feel free to [play around with the constants on Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/bhlkblxhur) to see how they affect the curve.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can plot those on a graph to see what they look like:

![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/dark_graph.png){.dark-only}
![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/light_graph.png){.light-only}

The "red" curve is for the left leg, and the "black" one is for the right. The horizontal x-axis represents time, and the y-axis indicates the angle of the leg limbs.

Feel free to [play around with the constants on Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/bhlkblxhur) to see how they affect the curve.
```

waiting on the changes requested here:
https://discordapp.com/channels/507304429255393322/1208846408552030238/1484908219158499430 via https://discord.fabricmc.net/

Author: Done

Looking into the game, you now have all you need to spawn the entity with `/summon example-mod:mini_golem`!

![Summoned Golem](/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem_summoned.png)

## Adding Data To An Entity {#adding-data-to-an-entity}

To store data on an entity, the normal way is to simply add a field in entity class.

Sometimes you need data from the server-side entity to be synced with the client-side entity. See the [Networking Page](../networking) for more info on the client-server architecture. To do this we can use _synched data_ \[sic] by defining an `EntityDataAccessor` for it.

> For our entity we'll make it dance every so often, so we need to create a dancing state that is synchronized with the client so that it can be animated later. However, the dancing cooldown need not be synced with the client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In our case we want our entity to dance every so often, so we need to create a dancing state that is synchronized between the clients so that it can be animated later. However, the dancing cooldown need not be synced with the client because the animation is triggered by the server.
```

correct me if I'm wrong

- `withLength(1)` makes the animation last 1 second.
- `looping()` makes the animation loop repeatedly.
- Then follows a series of `addAnimation` calls which adds individual animations targeting individual model parts. Here, we have different animations targeting the head, left leg, and right leg.
  - Each animation targets a specific property of that model part, in our case we are changing the rotation of the model part in each case.
  - An animation is made up of a list of keyframes. When the time (number of seconds elapsed) of the animation is equal to one of these keyframes, then the value of the property we targeted will be equal to the value we specified for that keyframe (in our case the rotation).
  - When the time is between our keyframes, then the value will be interpolated (blended) between the two neighboring keyframes.
  - We have used linear interpolation, which is the simplest and changes the value (in our case rotation of the model part) at a constant rate from one keyframe to the next. Vanilla also provides Catmull-Rom spline interpolation, which produces a smoother transition between keyframes.
  - Modders can also create custom interpolation types.

> Finally, let's hook up the animation to the model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, let's hook up the animation to the model:
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::dancing_animation](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

When the animation is playing we apply the animation, otherwise we use the old leg animation code.

## Adding the Spawn Egg {#adding-spawn-egg}

> To add the new spawn egg of the Mini Golem entity, refer to the full article on [Creating a Spawn Egg](../items/spawn-egg).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add a spawn egg for the Mini Golem entity, refer to the full article on [Creating a Spawn Egg](../items/spawn-egg).
```

---
title: Creating Your First Entity
description: Learn how to register a simple entity and how to give it goals, render, model, and animate it.

> authors:

Reviewer 3: This article does not come from the wiki at all, right?

Reviewer: No, it's brand new

  - cassiancc
  - Earthcomputer
  - JaaiDead
---

Entities are dynamic, interactive objects in the game that are not part of the terrain (like blocks). Entities can move around and interact with the world in various ways.

## Your First Entity {#your-first-entity}

This tutorial will walk you through the process of creating a custom _Mini Golem_. This entity will have fun animations.

An entity is a movable object in a world with logic attached to them. A few examples include:

- `Villager`, `Pig`, and `Goat` are all examples of a `Mob`, the most common type of entity - something alive.

> - `Zombie` and `Skeleton` are all examples of a `Monster`, a variant of an `Entity` that is hostile to the `Player`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Zombie` and `Skeleton` are examples of a `Monster`, a variant of an `Entity` that is hostile to the `Player`.
```

- `Minecart` and `Boat` are examples of a `VehicleEntity`, which has special logic for accepting player input.

> This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a `PathfinderEntity`, used by most mobs with pathfinding like `Zombie` and `Villager` alike.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a `PathfinderMob`, used by most mobs with pathfinding like `Zombie` and `Villager` alike.
```

> This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a `PathfinderEntity`, used by most mobs with pathfinding like `Zombie` and `Villager` alike.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a `PathfinderEntity`, used by most mobs with pathfinding like `Zombie` and `Villager`.
```

## Preparing Your First Entity {#preparing-your-first-entity}

The first step in creating a custom entity is defining its class and registering it with the game.

> We'll create the class `MiniGolemEntity` for our entity, and start by giving it attributes. [Attributes](attributes) decide the Maximum Health, Movement Speed & Tempt Range of the entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll create the class `MiniGolemEntity` for our entity, and start by giving it attributes. [Attributes](attributes) decide various things including the maximum health, movement speed, and tempt range of the entity.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::registerclass](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

> To register your entity, it's recommended to create a separate class, `ModEntityTypes`, where you register any and all entity types, set their dimensions, and register their attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register your entity, it's recommended to create a separate class, `ModEntityTypes`, where you register any and all entity types, set their sizes, and register their attributes.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::types](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/ModEntityTypes.java)

## Adding Goals {#adding-goals}

> Goals are the system that handle an entity's objective/aim, providing them with a defined set of behaviour. Goals have a certain priority: goals with a lower value for the priority are prioritized over goals with a higher value for the priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Goals are the system that handle an entity's objective/aim, providing them with a defined set of behavior. Goals have a certain priority: goals with a lower value for the priority are prioritized over goals with a higher value for the priority.
```

To add goals to the entity, you need to create a `registerGoals` method in your entity's class that defines the goals for the entity.

@[code transcludeWith=:::goals](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

::: info

1. `TemptGoal` - The entity is attracted towards a player holding an item.

> 2. `RandomStrollGoal` - Walks/Wanders around the world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `RandomStrollGoal` - Walks/wanders around the world.
```

> 3. `LookAtPlayerGoal` - To look at the `Cow` entity.

Reviewer: ?

4. `RandomLookAroundGoal` - To look in random directions.

:::

## Creating Rendering {#creating-rendering}

> Rendering refers to the process of converting game data such as blocks, entities, and environments into visual representations displayed on the player's screen. This involves determining how objects are illuminated, shaded, and textured.

Reviewer: While true, illumination and shading (in the natural sense of the word, not "shaders") aren't directly related to entity rendering in most cases.

::: tip

Entity rendering is always handled on the client side. The server manages the entity's logic and behavior, while the client is responsible for displaying the entity's model, texture, and animations.

:::

Rendering has multiple steps involving their own classes, but we'll start with the `EntityRenderState` class.

@[code transcludeWith=:::entitystate](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/state/MiniGolemEntityRenderState.java)

> The render state determines how the entity is visually represented, including animation states such as movement and idle behaviors.

Reviewer: The render state actually just stores the state required for rendering, as the name suggests. It does not determine *how* the entity is rendered.

### Setting up the Model {#setting-up-model}

The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines how your entity looks by describing its shape and parts. Models are generally created in third-party tools like [Blockbench](https://web.blockbench.net), rather than being written by hand. Nonetheless, this tutorial will go through a manual example to show you how it works.

::: warning

Blockbench supports multiple [mappings](../migrating-mappings/#mappings) (such as Mojang Mappings, Yarn, and others). Ensure you select the correct mapping that matches your development environment - this tutorial uses Mojang Mappings.

Mismatched mappings can cause errors when integrating Blockbench generated code.

:::

@[code transcludeWith=:::model1](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

> The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines the visual model for a Mini Golem entity. It extends EntityModel, specifying how the entity's body parts (body, head, left leg, and right leg) are named.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MiniGolemEntityModel` class defines the visual model for a Mini Golem entity. It extends `EntityModel`, specifying how the entity's body parts (body, head, left leg, and right leg) are named.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_texture_data](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

This method defines the Mini Golem's 3D model by creating its body, head, and legs as cuboids, setting their positions and texture mappings, and returning a `LayerDefinition` for rendering.

> Each part is added with an offset point which is the origin for all of the transformations applied to that part. All other coordinates in the model part are measured relative to this offset point.Most of the math is provided by Blockbench.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each part is added with an offset point which is the origin for all of the transformations applied to that part. All other coordinates in the model part are measured relative to this offset point.
```

::: info

The higher Y values in the model, the lower you are in the entity. This is the reverse compared to in-game coordinates.

:::

> We'll now need to create a `ModEntityModelLayers` class in the client package. This entity only has a single texture layer, but other entities may use multiple - think of the secondary skin layer on mobs like the `Player` or a `Spider`'s eyes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll now need to create a `ModEntityModelLayers` class in the client package. This entity only has a single texture layer, but other entities may use multiple - think of the secondary skin layer on entities like the `Player` or a `Spider`'s eyes.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_layer](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/ModEntityModelLayers.java)

This class must then be initialized in the mod's client initializer.

@[code transcludeWith=::register_client](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/ExampleModCustomEntityClient.java)

### Setting up the Texture {#setting-up-texture}

::: warning

> The size of the texture should match the values in the `LayerDefinition.create(modelData, 64, 32);`, 64 pixels wide and 32 pixels tall. If you need a bigger texture, then don't forget to change the size in `LayerDefinition.create` to match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The size of the texture should match the values in the `LayerDefinition.create(modelData, 64, 32);`, 64 pixels wide and 32 pixels tall. If you need a differently-sized texture, then don't forget to change the size in `LayerDefinition.create` to match.
```

:::

> Each model part / box is expecting a net on the texture in a particular location. By default, it's expecting it at `0, 0` (the top left), but this can be changed by calling the texOffs function in CubeListBuilder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each model part / box is expecting a net on the texture in a particular location. By default, it's expecting it at `0, 0` (the top left), but this can be changed by calling the `texOffs` function in `CubeListBuilder`.
```

> For example purposes, you can use this example texture for `assets/example-mod/textures/entity/mini_golem.png`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example purposes, you can use this texture for `assets/example-mod/textures/entity/mini_golem.png`
```

<DownloadEntry visualURL="/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem.png" downloadURL="/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem_small.png">Texture</DownloadEntry>

### Creating the Renderer {#creating-the-renderer}

> A mob's entity renderer enables you to view your entity in-game. We'll create a new class, `MiniGolemEntityRenderer`, which will tell Minecraft what texture, model and entity render state to use for this entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity's renderer enables you to view your entity in-game. We'll create a new class, `MiniGolemEntityRenderer`, which will tell Minecraft what texture, model and entity render state to use for this entity.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::renderer](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/renderer/MiniGolemEntityRenderer.java)

This is also where the shadow radius is set, for this entity that will be `0.375f`.

### Adding Walking Animations {#walking-animations}

The following code can be added to the `MiniGolemEntityModel` class to give the entity a walking animation.

@[code transcludeWith=:::model_animation](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

> At First , We apply the yaw and pitch to the head model part.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start, apply the yaw and pitch to the head model part.
```

Then, we apply the walking animation to the leg model parts. We use the `cos` function to create the general leg swing effect and then transform the cosine wave to get the correct swing speed and amplitude.

- The `0.2` constant in the formula controls the frequency of the cosine wave (how fast the legs are swinging). Higher values result in a higher frequency.
- The `1.4` constant in the formula controls the amplitude of the cosine wave (how far the legs swing). Higher values result in a higher amplitude.
- The `limbSwingAmplitude` variable also affects the amplitude in the same way as the `1.4` constant. This variable changes based on the velocity of the entity, so that the legs swing more when the entity is moving faster and swing less or not at all when the entity is moving slower or not moving.

> - The `Mth.PI` constant for the left leg translates the cosine wave a half phase so that the left leg is swinging the opposite direction to the right leg.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `Math.PI` constant for the left leg translates the cosine wave a half phase so that the left leg is swinging the opposite direction to the right leg.
```

Reviewer: Nope this is not a typo. It's `Mth.PI`.

Reviewer 2: `Mth.PI` just calls `Math.PI`, is there a reason to use the Minecraft one?

Reviewer: `Mth.PI` is `(float) Math.PI`, there's no need to downcast to float if you use `Mth.PI`.

Reviewer 3: My fault, thought it was a typo

You can plot on a graph to see what these look like. The first curve is the left leg, and the second curve is the right leg. The _`x`_-axis is time, and the _`y`_-axis is the angle of the leg limbs.

![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/dark_graph.png){.dark-only}

![Graph](/assets/develop/entity/graphs/light_graph.png){.light-only}

> Feel free to play around with the constants to see how they affect the curve. [Desmos Link](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/bhlkblxhur)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Feel free to [play around with the constants on Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator/bhlkblxhur) to see how they affect the curve.
```

is this an immutable "snapshot"?

Reviewer: It's immutable, yes

Reviewer: @JaaiDead this has not been fully resolved

Author: ok 👍

Looking into the game, you now have all you need to spawn the entity with `/summon example-mod:mini_golem`!

![Summoned Golem](/assets/develop/entity/mini_golem_summoned.png)

## Adding Data To An Entity {#adding-data-to-an-entity}

To store data on an entity, the normal way is to simply add a field in entity class.

> Sometimes you need data from the server-side entity to be sycned with the client-side entity. See The [Networking Page](../networking) For More Info On The Client - Server Architecture. To do this we can define an `EntityDataAccessor` for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes you need data from the server-side entity to be synced with the client-side entity. See the [Networking Page](../networking) for more info on the Client-Server Architecture. To do this we can define an `EntityDataAccessor` for it.
```

> Sometimes you need data from the server-side entity to be sycned with the client-side entity. See The [Networking Page](../networking) For More Info On The Client - Server Architecture. To do this we can define an `EntityDataAccessor` for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you need data from the server-side entity to be synced with the client-side entity. See the [Networking Page](../networking) for more info on the client-server architecture. To do this we can use _synched data_ \[sic] by defining an `EntityDataAccessor` for it.
```

> For our entity we'll make it dance ever so often, so we need to create a dancing state that is synchronized with the client so that it can be animated later. However, the dancing cooldown need not be syched with the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our entity we'll make it dance every so often, so we need to create a dancing state that is synchronized with the client so that it can be animated later. However, the dancing cooldown need not be synced with the client.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::datatracker](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

As you can see we added a tick method to control the dancing state.

## Storing Data to NBT {#storing-data-to-nbt}

> For persistent data that can be saved after the game is closed, we'll start by overriding the `addAdditionalSaveData` and `readAdditionalSaveData` methods in `MiniGolemEntity`. We can use this to store the amount of time remaining in the dancing animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For persistent data that can be saved after the game is closed, we will override the `addAdditionalSaveData` and `readAdditionalSaveData` methods in `MiniGolemEntity`. We can use this to store the amount of time remaining in the dancing animation.
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::savedata](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

Now, whenever the entity is loaded, it will restore the state that it was left in.

## Adding a Dancing Animation {#adding-a-dancing-animation}

The first step to adding an animation to the entity is adding the animation sate in the entity class.

@[code transcludeWith=:::dancing_animation](@/reference/latest/src/main/java/com/example/docs/entity/MiniGolemEntity.java)

> We have overridden the `onSyncedDataUpdated` method. This gets called whenever synched data is updated both the server and the client. The if-statement check wether the synched data that was updated is the dancing synched data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have overridden the `onSyncedDataUpdated` method. This gets called whenever synched data is updated both the server and the client. The if-statement checks whether the synched data that was updated is the dancing synched data.
```

- Each animation targets a specific property of that model part, in our case we are changing the rotation of the model part in each case.
- An animation is made up of a list of keyframes. When the time (number of seconds elapsed) of the animation is equal to one of these keyframes, then the value of the property we targeted will be equal to the value we specified for that keyframe (in our case the rotation).
- When the time is between our keyframes, then the value will be interpolated (blended) between the two neighboring keyframes.
- We have used linear interpolation, which is the simplest and changes the value (in our case rotation of the model part) at a constant rate from one keyframe to the next. Vanilla also provides Catmull-Rom spline interpolation, which produces a smoother transition between keyframes.
- Modders can also create custom interpolation types.

Finally, let's hook up the animation to the model.

@[code transcludeWith=:::dancing_animation](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/entity/model/MiniGolemEntityModel.java)

When the animation is playing we apply the animation, otherwise we use the old leg animation code.

> ## Adding the Spawn Egg {#adding-spawn-egg}

Reviewer 3: Check out what we did in #518 — we don't have to repeat the code or list the steps I think.
